[router] remove search parameters from screen.getId() (#27285)
expo/expo: docs/pages/router/navigating-pages.mdx

---

import { FileTree } from '~/ui/components/FileTree';

> import { Cell, HeaderCell, Row, Table, TableHead } from '~/ui/components/Table';

Reviewer: I don't think we need to use these components to create a table in this markdown document. Let's remove it.

In contrast, the `replace` method substitutes the current route in the navigation stack with a new one, effectively replacing the current screen with the new one without adding to the stack.

To navigate, you can provide a full path (`/profile/settings`), a relative path (`../settings`), or by passing an object (`{ pathname: 'profile', params: { id: '123' } }`).

| Name       | Description                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        |
| ---------- | ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |

> | `navigate` | Navigate to a route using the default behavior. `navigate` only pushes a new screen if the new route is different (not including search parameters or the hash). Otherwise, the current screen rerenders with the new parameters. If you navigate to a route that is in the history, the stack will dismiss screens to that route. |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| `navigate` | Navigate to the nearest route in the navigation state. `navigate` only pushes a new screen if the new route is different (not including search parameters or the hash). Otherwise, the current screen rerenders with the new parameters. If you navigate to a route that is in the history, the stack will dismiss screens to that route. |
```

> | `push`     | The same as `navigate`, except a new screen is always created. You can push the current route multiple times or with new parameters.                                                                                                                                                                                               |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| `push`     | Always pushes a new route, and never pops or replaces to existing routes. You can push the current route multiple times or with new parameters.                                                                                                                                                                                               |
```

In contrast, the `replace` method substitutes the current route in the navigation stack with a new one, effectively replacing the current screen with the new one without adding to the stack.

> To navigate, you can provide a full path like `/profile/settings`, a relative path like `../settings` or by passing an object like `{ pathname: 'profile', params: { id: '123' } }`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To navigate, you can provide a full path (`/profile/settings`), a relative path (`../settings`), or by passing an object (`{ pathname: 'profile', params: { id: '123' } }`).
```

Put the examples in brackets so that it is easier to read.

> <Table>
>   <TableHead>
>     <Row>
>       <HeaderCell>Name</HeaderCell>
>       <HeaderCell>Description</HeaderCell>
>     </Row>
>   </TableHead>
>   <tbody>
>     <Row>
>       <Cell>`navigate`</Cell>
>       <Cell>
>         Navigate to a route using the default behavior. Navigate will only push a new screen if the
>         new route is different (not including search parameters or the hash), otherwise the current
>         screen will rerender with the new parameters. If you navigate to a route is that is in the
>         history, the stack will unwind to that route.
>       </Cell>
>     </Row>
>     <Row>
>       <Cell>`push`</Cell>
>       <Cell>
>         The same as `navigate`, except a new screen will always be created. You can push the current
>         route multiple times, or with new parameters.
>       </Cell>
>     </Row>
>     <Row>
>       <Cell>replace</Cell>
>       <Cell>
>         Remove the current route from the history and replace it with the specifed URL. This is
>         useful for redirects
>       </Cell>
>     </Row>
>   </tbody>
> </Table>

Reviewer: ````suggestion
| Name      | Description                                                                                                                               |
| --------- | ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `navigate` | Navigate to a route using the default behavior. `navigate` only pushes a new screen if the new route is different (not including search parameters or the hash). Otherwise, the current screen rerenders with the new parameters. If you navigate to a route that is in the history, the stack will reset to that route. |
| `push`    | The same as `navigate`, except a new screen is always created. You can push the current route multiple times or with new parameters. |
| `replace` | Remove the current route from the history and replace it with the specified URL. This is useful for redirects.                              |
````

- Let's use the table syntax
- Fix missing code syntax highlight in `navigate` (start of the second sentence).
- Use present tense
- Instead of using the word "unwind", I'd suggest using "reset" as it was hard to understand initially (unless I'm missing something here, please let me know).
- replace -> `replace` as it was missing code syntax highlight

## Imperative navigation

You can also navigate imperatively using the `router` object. This is useful when you need to perform a navigation action outside of a React component, such as in an event handler or a utility function.

```js
import { router } from 'expo-router';

export function logout() {
  /* @info Navigate to <strong>/login</strong> */
  router.replace('/login');
  /* @end */
}
```

The `router` object is immutable and contains the following functions:

- **navigate**: `(href: Href) => void`. Perform a `navigate` action.
- **push**: `(href: Href) => void`. Perform a `push` action.
- **replace**: `(href: Href) => void`. Perform a `replace` action.

> - **back**: `() => void` Navigate back to previous route.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- **back**: `() => void`. Navigate back to previous route.
```
Some of these have a period, others do not.

Native navigation does not always support `replace`. For example on Twitter, you wouldn't be able to "replace" directly from a profile to a tweet, this is because the UI requires a back button to return to the feed or other top-level tab screen. In this case, replace would switch to the feed tab, and push the tweet route on top of it, or if you were on a different tweet inside the feed tab, it would replace the current tweet with the new tweet. This exact behavior can be obtained in Expo Router by using [`unstable_settings`](/router/advanced/router-settings).

## Imperative navigation

> You can also navigate imperatively using the `router` object. This is useful when you need to perform a navigation action outside of a React component, such as in a event handler or a utility function.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can also navigate imperatively using the `router` object. This is useful when you need to perform a navigation action outside of a React component, such as in an event handler or a utility function.
```
